about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

Web GIS is about building, displaying and interacting with
online maps.

![example map](http://geonode.org/static/img/hero_img.png)

## Course Overview

The course is composed of 4 intensive days of lectures, practicals
and writing your own code. The first two-day block is based
on Google Maps and its Application Programming Interface (API).
The second block teaches open source
GIS tools (OSGEO) for serving maps online.

---

### Block 1

Wednesday, Week 16

- **Lecture 1: Introduction to module. What is WebGIS?**
- Set up: Basic HTML, CSS, Notepad ++. Website.
- Tutorial 1: [Google Maps](https://developers.google.com/maps/) (markers, windows)

![Google Logo](https://developers.google.com/_static/fd384d45a8/images/developers-logo.svg)

- **Lecture 2: Introduction to JavaScript**
- CodeAcademy Introduction
- Tutorial 2: JavaScript functions
- Tutorial 3: Buffers

Lunch

- **Lecture 3: [JavaScript](http://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/javascript) for web GIS**
- Tutorial 4: Debugging JavaScript
- Tutorial 5: Authoring content in Google Earth
- Tutorial 6: CSS
- Tutorial 7: Infowindows

Thursday, week 16

- Tutorial 8: Zooming
- Tutorial 9: Setting up JQuery and Using JQuery

Lunch

- Tutorial 10: Mapping routes dyanmically, removing routes.
- Tutorial 11: Mapping real time locations.
- Tutorial 12: Toggling single objects and arrays
- Tutorial 13: Adding search box/directions

**Assessment 1: Develop an original site featuring all the elements above**

<hr>

### Block 2

- **Lecture 4: Introduction to OSGEO**
- Exploring linux
- Testing OSGEO tools
- GitHub for web GIS applications

Lunch

  - Setting up GeoServer
  - Adding data to GeoServer
  - Modifying GeoServer outputs
  
Week 20 Thurs

- **Lecture 5: Introduction to web mapping with Leaflet**
- A first Leaflet map
- Customising basemaps
- Adding additional layers

Lunch

- **Lecture 6: Introduction to interactive mapping**
- Adding buttons to control layers and aesthetics
- Inputting and saving user data
- **Lecture 7: GIS in the cloud**

## About the website

<p class="message">
 Welcome the the Web GIS website, for MSc students in the School of Geography,
 University of Leeds. The site was built using HTML, CSS and a little
 help from static website generator
<a href="http://jekyllrb.com">Jekyll</a>.
 It is based on the
 <a href="https://github.com/poole/lanyon">Lanyon Template</a>.
</p>

Commit message:

updated pages to link to the data

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

Web GIS is about building, displaying and interacting with
online maps.

![example map](http://geonode.org/static/img/hero_img.png)

## Course Overview

The course is composed of 4 intensive days of lectures, practicals
and writing your own code. The first two-day block is based
on Google Maps and its Application Programming Interface (API).
The second block teaches open source
GIS tools (OSGEO) for serving maps online.

We provide [example data](/webGIS/data.html) and code snippets to guide you
through the [practicals](/webGIS/practicals.html). At the end of this process
you will be able to create a simple web mapping application on a topic of your
choice.

---

### Block 1

Wednesday, Week 16

- **Lecture 1: Introduction to module. What is WebGIS?**
- Set up: Basic HTML, CSS, Notepad ++. Website.
- Tutorial 1: [Google Maps](https://developers.google.com/maps/) (markers, windows)

![Google Logo](https://developers.google.com/_static/fd384d45a8/images/developers-logo.svg)

- **Lecture 2: Introduction to JavaScript**
- CodeAcademy Introduction
- Tutorial 2: JavaScript functions
- Tutorial 3: Buffers

Lunch

- **Lecture 3: [JavaScript](http://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/javascript) for web GIS**
- Tutorial 4: Debugging JavaScript
- Tutorial 5: Authoring content in Google Earth
- Tutorial 6: CSS
- Tutorial 7: Infowindows

Thursday, week 16

- Tutorial 8: Zooming
- Tutorial 9: Setting up JQuery and Using JQuery

Lunch

- Tutorial 10: Mapping routes dyanmically, removing routes.
- Tutorial 11: Mapping real time locations.
- Tutorial 12: Toggling single objects and arrays
- Tutorial 13: Adding search box/directions

**Assessment 1: Develop an original site featuring all the elements above**

<hr>

### Block 2

- **Lecture 4: Introduction to OSGEO**
- Exploring linux
- Testing OSGEO tools
- GitHub for web GIS applications

Lunch

  - Setting up GeoServer
  - Adding data to GeoServer
  - Modifying GeoServer outputs
  
Week 20 Thurs

- **Lecture 5: Introduction to web mapping with Leaflet**
- A first Leaflet map
- Customising basemaps
- Adding additional layers

Lunch

- **Lecture 6: Introduction to interactive mapping**
- Adding buttons to control layers and aesthetics
- Inputting and saving user data
- **Lecture 7: GIS in the cloud**

## About the website

<p class="message">
 Welcome the the Web GIS website, for MSc students in the School of Geography,
 University of Leeds. The site was built using HTML, CSS and a little
 help from static website generator
<a href="http://jekyllrb.com">Jekyll</a>.
 It is based on the
 <a href="https://github.com/poole/lanyon">Lanyon Template</a>.
</p>
